README.md, before:

# Ratatui

<img align="left" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/125200832?s=128&v=4">

`ratatui` is a [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org) library that is all about cooking up terminal user interfaces.
It is a community fork of the original [tui-rs](https://github.com/fdehau/tui-rs)
project.

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/ratatui?logo=rust&style=flat-square)](https://crates.io/crates/ratatui)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/ratatui?style=flat-square)](./LICENSE) [![GitHub CI
Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ratatui-org/ratatui/ci.yml?style=flat-square&logo=github)](https://github.com/ratatui-org/ratatui/actions?query=workflow%3ACI+)
[![Docs.rs](https://img.shields.io/docsrs/ratatui?logo=rust&style=flat-square)](https://docs.rs/crate/ratatui/)  
[![Dependency
Status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/ratatui-org/ratatui/status.svg?style=flat-square)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/ratatui-org/ratatui)
[![Codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/ratatui-org/ratatui?logo=codecov&style=flat-square&token=BAQ8SOKEST)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/ratatui-org/ratatui)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/1070692720437383208?label=discord&logo=discord&style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/pMCEU9hNEj)
[![Matrix](https://img.shields.io/matrix/ratatui-general%3Amatrix.org?style=flat-square&logo=matrix&label=Matrix)](https://matrix.to/#/#ratatui:matrix.org)

<!-- See RELEASE.md for instructions on creating the demo gif --->
![Demo of Ratatui](https://vhs.charm.sh/vhs-tF0QbuPbtHgUeG0sTVgFr.gif)

<details>
<summary>Table of Contents</summary>

* [Ratatui](#ratatui)
  * [Installation](#installation)
  * [Introduction](#introduction)
  * [Quickstart](#quickstart)
  * [Status of this fork](#status-of-this-fork)
  * [Rust version requirements](#rust-version-requirements)
  * [Documentation](#documentation)
  * [Examples](#examples)
  * [Widgets](#widgets)
    * [Built in](#built-in)
    * [Third\-party libraries, bootstrapping templates and
      widgets](#third-party-libraries-bootstrapping-templates-and-widgets)
  * [Apps](#apps)
  * [Alternatives](#alternatives)
  * [Contributors](#contributors)
  * [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)
  * [License](#license)

</details>

## Installation

```shell
cargo add ratatui --features all-widgets
```

Or modify your `Cargo.toml`

```toml
[dependencies]
ratatui = { version = "0.23.0", features = ["all-widgets"]}
```

## Introduction

`ratatui` is a terminal UI library that supports multiple backends:

* [crossterm](https://github.com/crossterm-rs/crossterm) [default]
* [termion](https://github.com/ticki/termion)
* [termwiz](https://github.com/wez/wezterm/tree/master/termwiz)

The library is based on the principle of immediate rendering with intermediate buffers. This means
that at each new frame you should build all widgets that are supposed to be part of the UI. While
providing a great flexibility for rich and interactive UI, this may introduce overhead for highly
dynamic content. So, the implementation try to minimize the number of ansi escapes sequences
generated to draw the updated UI. In practice, given the speed of `Rust` the overhead rather comes
from the terminal emulator than the library itself.

Moreover, the library does not provide any input handling nor any event system and you may rely on
the previously cited libraries to achieve such features.

We keep a [CHANGELOG](./CHANGELOG.md) generated by [git-cliff](https://github.com/orhun/git-cliff)
utilizing [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/).

## Quickstart

The following example demonstrates the minimal amount of code necessary to setup a terminal and
render "Hello World!". The full code for this example which contains a little more detail is in
[hello_world.rs](./examples/hello_world.rs). For more guidance on how to create Ratatui apps, see
the [Docs](https://docs.rs/ratatui) and [Examples](#examples). There is also a starter template
available at [rust-tui-template](https://github.com/ratatui-org/rust-tui-template).

```rust
fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn Error>> {
    let mut terminal = setup_terminal()?;
    run(&mut terminal)?;
    restore_terminal(&mut terminal)?;
    Ok(())
}

fn setup_terminal() -> Result<Terminal<CrosstermBackend<Stdout>>, Box<dyn Error>> {
    let mut stdout = io::stdout();
    enable_raw_mode()?;
    execute!(stdout, EnterAlternateScreen)?;
    Ok(Terminal::new(CrosstermBackend::new(stdout))?)
}

fn restore_terminal(
    terminal: &mut Terminal<CrosstermBackend<Stdout>>,
) -> Result<(), Box<dyn Error>> {
    disable_raw_mode()?;
    execute!(terminal.backend_mut(), LeaveAlternateScreen,)?;
    Ok(terminal.show_cursor()?)
}

fn run(terminal: &mut Terminal<CrosstermBackend<Stdout>>) -> Result<(), Box<dyn Error>> {
    Ok(loop {
        terminal.draw(|frame| {
            let greeting = Paragraph::new("Hello World!");
            frame.render_widget(greeting, frame.size());
        })?;
        if event::poll(Duration::from_millis(250))? {
            if let Event::Key(key) = event::read()? {
                if KeyCode::Char('q') == key.code {
                    break;
                }
            }
        }
    })
}
```

## Status of this fork

In response to the original maintainer [**Florian Dehau**](https://github.com/fdehau)'s issue
regarding the [future of `tui-rs`](https://github.com/fdehau/tui-rs/issues/654), several members of
the community forked the project and created this crate. We look forward to continuing the work
started by Florian 🚀

In order to organize ourselves, we currently use a [Discord server](https://discord.gg/pMCEU9hNEj),
feel free to join and come chat! There is also a [Matrix](https://matrix.org/) bridge available at
[#ratatui:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/#ratatui:matrix.org).

While we do utilize Discord for coordinating, it's not essential for contributing.
Our primary open-source workflow is centered around GitHub.
For significant discussions, we rely on GitHub — please open an issue, a discussion or a PR.

Please make sure you read the updated [contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md) guidelines, especially if
you are interested in working on a PR or issue opened in the previous repository.

## Rust version requirements

Since version 0.23.0, The Minimum Supported Rust Version (MSRV) of `ratatui` is 1.67.0.

## Documentation

The documentation can be found on [docs.rs.](https://docs.rs/ratatui)

## Examples

The demo shown in the gif above is available on all available backends.

```shell
# crossterm
cargo run --example demo
# termion
cargo run --example demo --no-default-features --features=termion
# termwiz
cargo run --example demo --no-default-features --features=termwiz
```

The UI code for this is in [examples/demo/ui.rs](./examples/demo/ui.rs) while the application state
is in [examples/demo/app.rs](./examples/demo/app.rs).

If the user interface contains glyphs that are not displayed correctly by your terminal, you may
want to run the demo without those symbols:

```shell
cargo run --example demo --release -- --tick-rate 200 --enhanced-graphics false
```

More examples are available in the [examples](./examples/) folder.

## Widgets

### Built in

The library comes with the following
[widgets](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/index.html):

* [BarChart](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.BarChart.html)
* [Block](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/block/struct.Block.html)
* [Calendar](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/calendar/index.html)
* [Canvas](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/canvas/struct.Canvas.html) which allows
  rendering [points, lines, shapes and a world
  map](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/canvas/index.html)
* [Chart](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.Chart.html)
* [Clear](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.Clear.html)
* [Gauge](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.Gauge.html)
* [List](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.List.html)
* [Paragraph](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.Paragraph.html)
* [Scrollbar](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/scrollbar/struct.Scrollbar.html)
* [Sparkline](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.Sparkline.html)
* [Table](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.Table.html)
* [Tabs](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.Tabs.html)

Each widget has an associated example which can be found in the [examples](./examples/) folder. Run
each examples with cargo (e.g. to run the gauge example `cargo run --example gauge`), and quit by
pressing `q`.

You can also run all examples by running `cargo make run-examples` (requires `cargo-make` that can
be installed with `cargo install cargo-make`).

### Third-party libraries, bootstrapping templates and widgets

* [ansi-to-tui](https://github.com/uttarayan21/ansi-to-tui) — Convert ansi colored text to
  `ratatui::text::Text`
* [color-to-tui](https://github.com/uttarayan21/color-to-tui) — Parse hex colors to
  `ratatui::style::Color`
* [rust-tui-template](https://github.com/ratatui-org/rust-tui-template) — A template for bootstrapping a
  Rust TUI application with Tui-rs & crossterm
* [simple-tui-rs](https://github.com/pmsanford/simple-tui-rs) — A simple example tui-rs app
* [tui-builder](https://github.com/jkelleyrtp/tui-builder) — Batteries-included MVC framework for
  Tui-rs + Crossterm apps
* [tui-clap](https://github.com/kegesch/tui-clap-rs) — Use clap-rs together with Tui-rs
* [tui-log](https://github.com/kegesch/tui-log-rs) — Example of how to use logging with Tui-rs
* [tui-logger](https://github.com/gin66/tui-logger) — Logger and Widget for Tui-rs
* [tui-realm](https://github.com/veeso/tui-realm) — Tui-rs framework to build stateful applications
  with a React/Elm inspired approach
* [tui-realm-treeview](https://github.com/veeso/tui-realm-treeview) — Treeview component for
  Tui-realm
* [tui-rs-tree-widgets](https://github.com/EdJoPaTo/tui-rs-tree-widget): Widget for tree data
  structures.
* [tui-windows](https://github.com/markatk/tui-windows-rs) — Tui-rs abstraction to handle multiple
  windows and their rendering
* [tui-textarea](https://github.com/rhysd/tui-textarea): Simple yet powerful multi-line text editor
  widget supporting several key shortcuts, undo/redo, text search, etc.
* [tui-input](https://github.com/sayanarijit/tui-input): TUI input library supporting multiple
  backends and tui-rs.
* [tui-term](https://github.com/a-kenji/tui-term): A pseudoterminal widget library
  that enables the rendering of terminal applications as ratatui widgets.

## Apps

Check out the list of more than 50 [Apps using
`Ratatui`](https://github.com/ratatui-org/ratatui/wiki/Apps-using-Ratatui)!

## Alternatives

You might want to checkout [Cursive](https://github.com/gyscos/Cursive) for an alternative solution
to build text user interfaces in Rust.

## Contributors

[![GitHub
Contributors](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=ratatui-org/ratatui)](https://github.com/ratatui-org/ratatui/graphs/contributors)

## Acknowledgments

Special thanks to [**Pavel Fomchenkov**](https://github.com/nawok) for his work in designing **an
awesome logo** for the ratatui project and ratatui-org organization.

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

feat(examples): add demo2 example
This is example is aimed at creating a github social preview image and
replacing the current demo example.

  ![Made with VHS](https://vhs.charm.sh/vhs-3pibRTVrIP1eoiAgGjdXh5.gif)

README.md, after:

![Demo of Ratatui](https://repository-images.githubusercontent.com/600886023/96016d23-3bdd-4611-8c03-2e8b5836f900)
<!-- See RELEASE.md for instructions on creating the demo gif --->

<div align="center">

[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/ratatui?logo=rust&style=flat-square)](https://crates.io/crates/ratatui)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/ratatui?style=flat-square)](./LICENSE) [![GitHub CI
Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ratatui-org/ratatui/ci.yml?style=flat-square&logo=github)](https://github.com/ratatui-org/ratatui/actions?query=workflow%3ACI+)
[![Docs.rs](https://img.shields.io/docsrs/ratatui?logo=rust&style=flat-square)](https://docs.rs/crate/ratatui/)<br>
[![Dependency
Status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/ratatui-org/ratatui/status.svg?style=flat-square)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/ratatui-org/ratatui)
[![Codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/ratatui-org/ratatui?logo=codecov&style=flat-square&token=BAQ8SOKEST)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/ratatui-org/ratatui)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/1070692720437383208?label=discord&logo=discord&style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/pMCEU9hNEj)
[![Matrix](https://img.shields.io/matrix/ratatui-general%3Amatrix.org?style=flat-square&logo=matrix&label=Matrix)](https://matrix.to/#/#ratatui:matrix.org)<br>
[Documentation](https://docs.rs/ratatui)
· [Examples](https://github.com/ratatui-org/ratatui/tree/main/examples)
· [Report a bug](https://github.com/ratatui-org/ratatui/issues/new?labels=bug&projects=&template=bug_report.md)
· [Request a Feature](https://github.com/ratatui-org/ratatui/issues/new?labels=enhancement&projects=&template=feature_request.md)
· [Send a Pull Request](https://github.com/ratatui-org/ratatui/compare)

</div>

<img align="left" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/125200832?s=128&v=4">

# Ratatui

`ratatui` is a [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org) library that is all about cooking up terminal user
interfaces. It is a community fork of the original [tui-rs](https://github.com/fdehau/tui-rs)
project.

<details>
<summary>Table of Contents</summary>

* [Ratatui](#ratatui)
  * [Installation](#installation)
  * [Introduction](#introduction)
  * [Quickstart](#quickstart)
  * [Status of this fork](#status-of-this-fork)
  * [Rust version requirements](#rust-version-requirements)
  * [Documentation](#documentation)
  * [Examples](#examples)
  * [Widgets](#widgets)
    * [Built in](#built-in)
    * [Third\-party libraries, bootstrapping templates and
      widgets](#third-party-libraries-bootstrapping-templates-and-widgets)
  * [Apps](#apps)
  * [Alternatives](#alternatives)
  * [Contributors](#contributors)
  * [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)
  * [License](#license)

</details>

## Installation

```shell
cargo add ratatui --features all-widgets
```

Or modify your `Cargo.toml`

```toml
[dependencies]
ratatui = { version = "0.23.0", features = ["all-widgets"]}
```

## Introduction

`ratatui` is a terminal UI library that supports multiple backends:

* [crossterm](https://github.com/crossterm-rs/crossterm) [default]
* [termion](https://github.com/ticki/termion)
* [termwiz](https://github.com/wez/wezterm/tree/master/termwiz)

The library is based on the principle of immediate rendering with intermediate buffers. This means
that at each new frame you should build all widgets that are supposed to be part of the UI. While
providing a great flexibility for rich and interactive UI, this may introduce overhead for highly
dynamic content. So, the implementation try to minimize the number of ansi escapes sequences
generated to draw the updated UI. In practice, given the speed of `Rust` the overhead rather comes
from the terminal emulator than the library itself.

Moreover, the library does not provide any input handling nor any event system and you may rely on
the previously cited libraries to achieve such features.

We keep a [CHANGELOG](./CHANGELOG.md) generated by [git-cliff](https://github.com/orhun/git-cliff)
utilizing [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/).

## Quickstart

The following example demonstrates the minimal amount of code necessary to setup a terminal and
render "Hello World!". The full code for this example which contains a little more detail is in
[hello_world.rs](./examples/hello_world.rs). For more guidance on how to create Ratatui apps, see
the [Docs](https://docs.rs/ratatui) and [Examples](#examples). There is also a starter template
available at [rust-tui-template](https://github.com/ratatui-org/rust-tui-template).

```rust
fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn Error>> {
    let mut terminal = setup_terminal()?;
    run(&mut terminal)?;
    restore_terminal(&mut terminal)?;
    Ok(())
}

fn setup_terminal() -> Result<Terminal<CrosstermBackend<Stdout>>, Box<dyn Error>> {
    let mut stdout = io::stdout();
    enable_raw_mode()?;
    execute!(stdout, EnterAlternateScreen)?;
    Ok(Terminal::new(CrosstermBackend::new(stdout))?)
}

fn restore_terminal(
    terminal: &mut Terminal<CrosstermBackend<Stdout>>,
) -> Result<(), Box<dyn Error>> {
    disable_raw_mode()?;
    execute!(terminal.backend_mut(), LeaveAlternateScreen,)?;
    Ok(terminal.show_cursor()?)
}

fn run(terminal: &mut Terminal<CrosstermBackend<Stdout>>) -> Result<(), Box<dyn Error>> {
    Ok(loop {
        terminal.draw(|frame| {
            let greeting = Paragraph::new("Hello World!");
            frame.render_widget(greeting, frame.size());
        })?;
        if event::poll(Duration::from_millis(250))? {
            if let Event::Key(key) = event::read()? {
                if KeyCode::Char('q') == key.code {
                    break;
                }
            }
        }
    })
}
```

## Status of this fork

In response to the original maintainer [**Florian Dehau**](https://github.com/fdehau)'s issue
regarding the [future of `tui-rs`](https://github.com/fdehau/tui-rs/issues/654), several members of
the community forked the project and created this crate. We look forward to continuing the work
started by Florian 🚀

In order to organize ourselves, we currently use a [Discord server](https://discord.gg/pMCEU9hNEj),
feel free to join and come chat! There is also a [Matrix](https://matrix.org/) bridge available at
[#ratatui:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/#ratatui:matrix.org).

While we do utilize Discord for coordinating, it's not essential for contributing.
Our primary open-source workflow is centered around GitHub.
For significant discussions, we rely on GitHub — please open an issue, a discussion or a PR.

Please make sure you read the updated [contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md) guidelines, especially if
you are interested in working on a PR or issue opened in the previous repository.

## Rust version requirements

Since version 0.23.0, The Minimum Supported Rust Version (MSRV) of `ratatui` is 1.67.0.

## Documentation

The documentation can be found on [docs.rs.](https://docs.rs/ratatui)

## Examples

The demo shown in the gif above is available on all available backends.

```shell
# crossterm
cargo run --example demo
# termion
cargo run --example demo --no-default-features --features=termion
# termwiz
cargo run --example demo --no-default-features --features=termwiz
```

The UI code for this is in [examples/demo/ui.rs](./examples/demo/ui.rs) while the application state
is in [examples/demo/app.rs](./examples/demo/app.rs).

If the user interface contains glyphs that are not displayed correctly by your terminal, you may
want to run the demo without those symbols:

```shell
cargo run --example demo --release -- --tick-rate 200 --enhanced-graphics false
```

More examples are available in the [examples](./examples/) folder.

## Widgets

### Built in

The library comes with the following
[widgets](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/index.html):

* [BarChart](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.BarChart.html)
* [Block](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/block/struct.Block.html)
* [Calendar](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/calendar/index.html)
* [Canvas](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/canvas/struct.Canvas.html) which allows
  rendering [points, lines, shapes and a world
  map](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/canvas/index.html)
* [Chart](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.Chart.html)
* [Clear](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.Clear.html)
* [Gauge](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.Gauge.html)
* [List](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.List.html)
* [Paragraph](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.Paragraph.html)
* [Scrollbar](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/scrollbar/struct.Scrollbar.html)
* [Sparkline](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.Sparkline.html)
* [Table](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.Table.html)
* [Tabs](https://docs.rs/ratatui/latest/ratatui/widgets/struct.Tabs.html)

Each widget has an associated example which can be found in the [examples](./examples/) folder. Run
each examples with cargo (e.g. to run the gauge example `cargo run --example gauge`), and quit by
pressing `q`.

You can also run all examples by running `cargo make run-examples` (requires `cargo-make` that can
be installed with `cargo install cargo-make`).

### Third-party libraries, bootstrapping templates and widgets

* [ansi-to-tui](https://github.com/uttarayan21/ansi-to-tui) — Convert ansi colored text to
  `ratatui::text::Text`
* [color-to-tui](https://github.com/uttarayan21/color-to-tui) — Parse hex colors to
  `ratatui::style::Color`
* [rust-tui-template](https://github.com/ratatui-org/rust-tui-template) — A template for bootstrapping a
  Rust TUI application with Tui-rs & crossterm
* [simple-tui-rs](https://github.com/pmsanford/simple-tui-rs) — A simple example tui-rs app
* [tui-builder](https://github.com/jkelleyrtp/tui-builder) — Batteries-included MVC framework for
  Tui-rs + Crossterm apps
* [tui-clap](https://github.com/kegesch/tui-clap-rs) — Use clap-rs together with Tui-rs
* [tui-log](https://github.com/kegesch/tui-log-rs) — Example of how to use logging with Tui-rs
* [tui-logger](https://github.com/gin66/tui-logger) — Logger and Widget for Tui-rs
* [tui-realm](https://github.com/veeso/tui-realm) — Tui-rs framework to build stateful applications
  with a React/Elm inspired approach
* [tui-realm-treeview](https://github.com/veeso/tui-realm-treeview) — Treeview component for
  Tui-realm
* [tui-rs-tree-widgets](https://github.com/EdJoPaTo/tui-rs-tree-widget): Widget for tree data
  structures.
* [tui-windows](https://github.com/markatk/tui-windows-rs) — Tui-rs abstraction to handle multiple
  windows and their rendering
* [tui-textarea](https://github.com/rhysd/tui-textarea): Simple yet powerful multi-line text editor
  widget supporting several key shortcuts, undo/redo, text search, etc.
* [tui-input](https://github.com/sayanarijit/tui-input): TUI input library supporting multiple
  backends and tui-rs.
* [tui-term](https://github.com/a-kenji/tui-term): A pseudoterminal widget library
  that enables the rendering of terminal applications as ratatui widgets.

## Apps

Check out the list of more than 50 [Apps using
`Ratatui`](https://github.com/ratatui-org/ratatui/wiki/Apps-using-Ratatui)!

## Alternatives

You might want to checkout [Cursive](https://github.com/gyscos/Cursive) for an alternative solution
to build text user interfaces in Rust.

## Contributors

[![GitHub
Contributors](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=ratatui-org/ratatui)](https://github.com/ratatui-org/ratatui/graphs/contributors)

## Acknowledgments

Special thanks to [**Pavel Fomchenkov**](https://github.com/nawok) for his work in designing **an
awesome logo** for the ratatui project and ratatui-org organization.

## License

[MIT](./LICENSE)
